Anticipating the present tendency of the American people toward a healthful method of living and enjoyment, Spalding’s Athletic Library was established in 1892 for the purpose of encouraging athletics in every form, not only by publishing the official rules and records pertaining to the various pastimes, but also by instructing, until to-day Spalding’s Athletic Library is unique in its own particular field and has been conceded the greatest educational series on athletic and physical training subjects that has ever been compiled.

The publication of a distinct series of books devoted to athletic sports and pastimes and designed to occupy the premier place in America in its class was an early idea of Mr. A. G. Spalding, who was one of the first in America to publish a handbook devoted to athletic sports, Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide being the initial number, which was followed at intervals with other handbooks on the sports prominent in the ’70s.

Spalding’s Athletic Library has had the advice and counsel of Mr. A. G. Spalding in all of its undertakings, and particularly in all books devoted to the national game. This applies especially to Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide and Spalding’s Official Base Ball Record, both of which receive the personal attention of Mr. A. G. Spalding, owing to his early connection with the game as the leading pitcher of the champion Boston and Chicago teams of 1872–76. His interest does not stop, however, with matters pertaining to base ball; there is not a sport that Mr. Spalding does not make it his business to become familiar with, and that the Library will always maintain its premier place, with Mr. Spalding’s able counsel at hand, goes without saying.

The entire series since the issue of the first number has been under the direct personal supervision of Mr. James E. Sullivan, President of the American Sports Publishing Company, and the total series of consecutive numbers reach an aggregate of considerably over three hundred, included in which are many “annuals,” that really constitute the history of their particular sport in America year by year, back copies of which are even now eagerly sought for, constituting as they do the really first authentic records of events and official rules that have ever been consecutively compiled.

When Spalding’s Athletic Library was founded, seventeen years ago, track and field athletics were practically unknown outside the larger colleges and a few athletic clubs in the leading cities, which gave occasional meets, when an entry list of 250 competitors was a subject of comment; golf was known only by a comparatively few persons; lawn tennis had some vogue and base ball was practically the only established field sport, and that in a professional way; basket ball had just been invented; athletics for the schoolboy—and schoolgirl—were almost unknown, and an advocate of class contests in athletics in the schools could not get a hearing. To-day we find the greatest body of athletes in the world is the Public Schools Athletic League of Greater New York, which has had an entry list at its annual games of over two thousand, and in whose “elementary series” in base ball last year 106 schools competed for the trophy emblematic of the championship.

While Spalding’s Athletic Library cannot claim that the rapid growth of athletics in this country is due to it solely, the fact cannot be denied that the books have had a great deal to do with its encouragement, by printing the official rules and instructions for playing the various games at a nominal price, within the reach of everyone, with the sole object that its series might be complete and the one place where a person could look with absolute certainty for the particular book in which he might be interested.

In selecting the editors and writers for the various books, the leading authority in his particular line has been obtained, with the result that no collection of books on athletic subjects can compare with Spalding’s Athletic Library for the prominence of the various authors and their ability to present their subjects in a thorough and practical manner.

A short sketch of a few of those who have edited some of the leading numbers of Spalding’s Athletic Library is given herewith: